I was telling about the deep learning,
about the model, and
the next logical stuff used to explain
how the model is actually trained,
how is learning to do the predictions?
And there was a comment about [LAUGH]
connectivity of the neural network.
So usually,
in fully connected neural networks, and
that's what people played with
originally before AlexNet actually.
Well, as the name suggests,
fully connected neural network means that
all the neurons of the previous layer are
connected with all neurons the next layer.
So for
example with three neurons right here,
it means that this neuron
will be connected.
This neuron will be connected and
this one will be connected.
And it means that in the layer,
we will have W1, W2, and
W3 associated with this particular neuron.
And there will be W1, W2, wait, so W3.
But basically,
associated with this neuron, right?
So each neuron will have its own
set of Ws, weights and biases.
So there will be additional bias here,
additional bias here.
So that's why people usually put
weights 1112131 and 1222232, sorry,
[LAUGH]
just to
kind of differentiate that we have
different weights and different biases.
In convolutional neural network,
that's what AlexNet used,
not all the neurons connected, so
if it's not fully connected layers,
it's a convolutional operations.
I think I will get to it when we
will be discussing image processing.
So it will be basically in segments.
Now let's talk about
training of the model.
So how do we know what weights and
biases to use to actually do
the prediction if we're looking
at the hot dog or not hot dog?
And that's what we need
training data set for.
So what is training data sets?
For instance, if we are providing the
images to our neural network to train on,
we need tons of images.
And when I say tons,
it means we need about, well,
ideally several thousands for
each class you want to try train for.
And those images should be annotated.
So for instance,
we need thousand images with hot dog and
thousand images with not hot dog.
And what we will do,
we'll just provide the image,
let's say with the hot dog,
I don't know how to draw a hot dog.
Yeah I dont wanna mess with my
[LAUGH] lines and boxes here, but
imagine that that's a hot dog, right?
And at the end, we just seen our model.
Just because our training
data set is annotated,
I was saying that you're looking
right now at the hot dog, actually.
And all those weights and
biases, originally,
when the model is not trained,
it's activated randomly.
Meaning that we just
simply using those Ws and
Bs randomly somewhere,
let's say ideally around zero, right?
And maybe in the normal distribution
between something like minus one and one.
So all of them are randomly activated.
And our model first do the forwards and
that's the words we will be hearing
quite a bit, forward propagation.
So what is forward propagatio?
It means that it's just taking this image
of the hot dog and do those calculations,
right, with this random weights and
biases originally.
So some of the neurons will be for
instance activated and
will propagate the signal further, right?
And depending on those random weights in
the second layer, some of the neurons
here will be activated and so on and
so forth until we get to the last one.
And it can be activated or
it can be not activated.
So basically, this neuron will say
if it's looking at the hot dog or
if it's not looking at the hot dog.
All of that at this point is random,
right?
We just did forward propagation.
But our model is randomly activated so
we just get some random answer.
The trick is coming next.
Based on the prediction our model did,
if it was correct answer, right, if
we actually correctly said that you know
what, most probably, that's the hot dog.
In this case, we'll just go back and
reinforce all of
the previously made correct decision.
So basically if this neuron was activate
and this neuron was activated and
we'll simply reinforce this
connection between those neurons.
And how we do that?
By simply increasing weight, and
go to the next level and next level and
basically gonna go to all the previous
levels and
slightly modified those weights.
And what is happening right now,
this whole process of going back
is called backward propagation.
So in machine learning you probably
if you heard just a little bit
about machine learning backprop or
backward propagation is this process
when we training the machine learning.
But we're changing those weights
just a little bit and the way how,
what should be the difference
in those weights,
it's actually calculated
through the derivative.
And I don't wanna go too deep
into the math, but just trust me,
what we do here is if we're
seeing those decisions we made,
if the prediction was correct, right?
And then if a kinda similar image for
instance will be provided, there
is a chance that the same neurons will be
activated and we will get the same result.
But if for instance the prediction by our
random activated model was incorrect,
for instance,
although we're looking at the hot dog but
predicted that it's not a hot dog.
We will penalize our neural network
by doing exactly the same thing,
just going through those
activated channels and
simply shrinking down
the weights a little bit.
So the idea is that you reinforce
the correct predictions and
penalize the incorrectly
predicted results.
And you're just doing it over and over
again by showing multiple images, right?
So that's how you do it.
That's how you train neural network.